[DOCS] reorganizes content under the 1.0 Set up a GX environment topic (#9930)
great-expectations/great_expectations: docs/docusaurus/docs/core/set_up_a_gx_environment/install_gx.md

---
title: Install GX
---
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';

import PrereqPythonInstalled from '../_core_components/prerequisites/_python_installation.md';
import InstallLocal from './_install_gx/_local_installation.md';
import InstallEmrSpark from './_install_gx/_emr_spark_installation.md';
import InstallDatabricks from './_install_gx/_databricks_installation.md';
import InstallGxCloud from './_install_gx/_gx_cloud_installation.md';

import PythonVersion from '../_core_components/_python_version.md';

> Great Expectations (GX) is a Python library that provides a framework for describing data with expressive tests and then validating that the data meets those criteria.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Great Expectations (GX) is a Python library that provides a framework for describing data with expressive tests and then validating that the data meets those criteria.
```
I would recommend a rewrite of this text. It doesn't scan easily.

Author: Rewritten to correspond more to the purpose of this guide and less to defining what GX _is_ -- that part can remain in the "About GX" and "GX overview" topics.

## Prerequisites

- <PrereqPythonInstalled/>

> - (Recommended) [A Python virtual environment](/core/installation_and_setup/set_up_a_python_environment.mdx#optional-create-a-virtual-environment)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Recommended. [A Python virtual environment](/core/installation_and_setup/set_up_a_python_environment.mdx#optional-create-a-virtual-environment)
```

- Internet access
- Permissions to download and install packages in your environment

## Install the GX Python library

<Tabs queryString="install-location" groupId="install-location" defaultValue='local' values={[{label: 'Local', value:'local'}, {label: 'Hosted environment', value:'hosted'}, {label: 'GX Cloud', value:'gx-cloud'}]}>

  <TabItem value="local" label="Local">
<InstallLocal/>
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="hosted" label="Hosted">

> Hosted environments such as EMR Spark clusters or Databricks clusters do not provide for a filesystem where you can install your GX instance.  Instead, you must install GX in-memory using the Python-style notebooks available on those platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hosted environments such as EMR Spark or Databricks clusters do not provide a filesystem to install your GX instance.  Instead, you must install GX in memory using the Python-style notebooks available on those platforms.
```
